---
template: BlogPost
path: /FAQs
date: 2020-04-07T02:06:10.897Z
title: Frequently Asked Questions
thumbnail: /assets/makers-11.jpg
metaDescription: >-
  Frequently asked questions for the Norman and greater OKC metro area
  volunteers who want to produce PPE, donate materials, organizers, or fiscal
  contributors.
---
## How can I help?

* Donation of materials we need. We currently need:
* * PETG (preferred) or PLA, 1.75 mm, no “add-ins” like glitter or similar. Unopened packages preferred.
  * 0.5 mm to 1.0mm PETG clear plastic sheets at least 16x10 inches. Other types can be used, including transparency film, but for critical care in infectious areas, 16x10 inches is the required size.
* Producing needed items
* Organization skills and help facilitate materials, makers, and consumers
* You can donate financially. We are not yet prepared to accept monetary donations, but we may follow this route. Many plastics vendors have gone from selling to hoarding or even manufacturing their own designs of masks for pure profit.



## Why start this group?

We have makers and we have people who want to use what is made. We need to make it as efficient as possible to get items produced and in use safely. This is an action focused organization.

None of us have egos to satisfy. We are doing what we see a need for, and if another better equipped or organized group could use our resources, we will join with them.



## Who is involved?

Currently we have a small number of 3d printer owners producing for Norman Regional Hospital. We are seeking to expand the pool of makers and consumers, but we will never be able to supply everything asked for. We rely on receivers to not be greedy.

Blake Kirkpatrick has been instrumental in the initial design and working with Norman Regional to get it approved for use in isolation areas, where PPE gear is most critical. He started with a public design from the 3d printer manufacturer Prusa, and added supports for ear-to-ear coverage of the face mask. He and his family have received the community printed frames, added the visor material, and distributed them to those using them.



## Is this only for 3d printing?

No, it is for any approved design, however right now the only design approved for the infectious use cases is a 3d printed face shield. This does not exclude other devices for non-critical care use being made through this group, but we still need confirmation of acceptance and use for the receivers. We won’t stockpile items.



## Is this only for the Norman and OKC area?

Right now, yes. This includes surrounding “greater metro” areas, but we are limiting the scope to a specific area to make sure we can organize effectively.



## Can I post my design?

Many makers are also self-starters, who want to make or tweak designs to be just a little bit better. We need that, but we need approval of those designs, and that causes a lot of disruption. We are focusing on producing a small number of approved designs.

We are not trying to stifle innovation (and we have a second open facebook group for just this purpose), but we are trying to focus on actions that produce meaningful and immediate results. Please, innovate, but once a design is finalized, we should keep changes minimal and only for production or minor tweaks, get those approved, and then use the new design.

We are not going to approve every design, and while there are many out there for face masks, respirator valves, and other devices, these are much more difficult to quality control and get accepted.
